# **Summary**

I saw an interesting research paper done on particulate matter/aersols in the US and how it affects circulatory/respiratory mortality. You can think of particulate matter and aerosols as very small toxic air pollutants. It sort of relates to microplastics because there are these really small particles that can have a large impact on one's health. One wrong mutation and it can be game over essentially. The study "Secondary organic aerosol association with cardiorespiratory disease mortality in the United States," by Pye et al., reminded me of the concept of free radicals. They might contribute a small chance to induce mutations but in the long run you wouldn't want to deal with them. 
What I wanted to accomplish was a sort of basic replication of the statisical methods used in this paper and try to see what I could find on my own. I do admit the paper's methodologies and code is quite confusing to me so there may be some inconsistencies. 

After doing some EDA, data cleaning, and applying a simple regression, I found sulfate and ammonium nitrate particulate matter to be the most contributing factors to age-adjusted circulatory/respiratory mortality across US counties. This is merely an association based on the variables used. Of course, there is always an issue of omitted variable bias so I included all confounders used by the researchers to control for them. My main recommendation/conclusion is to gather geographic data regarding the main sources for these particulate matter variables and assign a score for each county. What we would be looking to find is a relationship between those high scores and the circulatory/respiratory deaths. There can also be some reevaluation of the confounders and covariates due to multicollinearity issues. 
